New and updated docs for HIS Designer for Logic Apps and 3270 Design Tool (#935)
MicrosoftDocs/biztalk-docs: his/core/application-integration-3270designer-2.md

---
title: What is the 3270 Design Tool
description: Learn about creating green-screen applications with the 3270 Design Tool for Azure Logic Apps.
ms.prod: host-integration-server
ms.topic: conceptual
ms.date: 10/17/2023

#CustomerIntent: As a programmer, I need to create metadata for the 3270 connector in Azure Logic Apps using the 3270 Design Tool.
---

# What is the 3270 Design Tool? 

To create mainframe metadata for 3270 stream-based artifacts to use in Azure Logic Apps, you can use the 3270 Design Tool. This tool is a desktop application that helps you define metadata used by the IBM 3270 connector in Azure Logic Apps to navigate and interact with your 3270 applications.

:::image type="content" source="media/la-3dtdesigner-main-view1.png" alt-text="HIS Designer for Azure Logic Apps":::

## Why use the 3270 Design Tool to interact with 3270 applications?

> In the SNA days, the display management protocol used to facilitate the communication between remote end-users and a centralized mainframe was called the 3270 data stream. At the end user's location in an SNA network was a device referred to as a 3270 terminal. Because so many SNA and 3270 applications existed, customer looked at integrating their SNA protocol into their IP backbone. The technology used to move from SNA 3270 applications to TCP/IP is called TN3270, short for Telnet 3270. Extracted from [Introduction to the 3270 terminal](https://www.ibm.com/docs/en/zos-basic-skills?topic=enhanced-introduction-3270-terminal).

Reviewer: Reduce passive voice and localization issues:

```suggestion
During the prevalence of System Network Architecture (SNA), the 3270 data stream was used as the display management protocol that facilitated communication between remote end users and a centralized mainframe. A device known as a 3270 terminal existed in an SNA network at the end user's location.

Due to many SNA and 3270 applications existing at that time, customers looked at integrating their SNA protocol into their IP backbone. They used a technology known as Telnet 3270 (TN3270) to move from SNA 3270 applications to TCP/IP. For more information, see [Introduction to the 3270 terminal](https://www.ibm.com/docs/en/zos-basic-skills?topic=enhanced-introduction-3270-terminal).
```

Reviewer: @haroldcampos: Please review this suggested edit? Thanks!

> 3270 Applications are pervasive in IBM Mainframe environments. To access these applications, which oftentimes have business logic embedded with the screens, separating the screen and business logic might not be possible or maybe you no longer have information for how the applications work. The 3270 Design tool helps to parse and process these applications so the screen information can be reused.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3270 applications are pervasive in IBM mainframe environments. To access these applications, which often have business logic embedded with the screens, separating the screen and business logic might not be possible, or maybe you no longer have information for how the applications work. The 3270 Design Tool helps parse and process these applications so that you can reuse the screen information.
```

Reviewer: @haroldcampos: Please review this suggested edit? Thanks!

## How does the 3270 Design Tool work?

In a 3270 screen-driven app, the screens and data fields are unique to your scenarios, so the 3270 connector needs this information about your app, which you can provide as metadata. This metadata describes information that helps your logic app identify and recognize screens, describes how to navigate between screens, where to input data, and where to expect results. To specify and generate this metadata, you use the 3270 Design Tool, which walks you through these specific *modes*, or stages, as described later in more details:

* **Capture**: In this mode, you record the screens required for completing a specific task with your mainframe app, for example, getting a bank balance.

* **Navigation**: In this mode, you specify the plan or path for how to navigate through your mainframe app's screens for the specific task.

* **Methods**: In this mode, you define the method, for example, `GetBalance`, that describes the screen navigation path. You also select the fields on each screen that become the method's input and output parameters.

## Unsupported elements

> The design tool doesn't support Partial IBM Basic Mapping (BMS) maps: If you import a BMS map, the design tool ignores partial screen definitions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The design tool doesn't support partial IBM Basic Mapping Support (BMS) maps. If you import a BMS map, the design tool ignores partial screen definitions.
```

---
title: What is the 3270 Design Tool
description: Learn about creating green-screen applications with the 3270 Design Tool for Azure Logic Apps.
ms.prod: host-integration-server
ms.topic: conceptual
ms.date: 10/17/2023

#CustomerIntent: As a programmer, I need to create metadata for the 3270 connector in Azure Logic Apps using the 3270 Design Tool.
---

# What is the 3270 Design Tool? 

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

---
title: What is the 3270 Design Tool

> description: Get started with the 3270 Design Tool for Azure Logic Apps. This development tool helps you create green-screen applications.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
description: Create green-screen applications with the 3270 Design Tool for Azure Logic Apps.
```

ms.prod: host-integration-server

> ms.topic: overview 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
ms.topic: conceptual
```

ms.date: 10/17/2023

#CustomerIntent: As a programmer, I need to create metadata for the 3270 connector in Azure Logic Apps using the 3270 Design Tool.
---

# What is the 3270 Design Tool? 

> Learn how to create mainframe metadata for 3270 stream-based artifacts to use in Azure Logic Apps.

Reviewer: Consolidate with the subsequent intro paragraph.
```suggestion
```

> ## What is the 3270 Design Tool

Reviewer: Unnecessarily repeats the article title.

```suggestion
```

> 

Reviewer: Remove extra blank line. 

```suggestion
```

> The 3270 Design Tool is a desktop application that helps you define metadata used by the IBM 3270 connector in Azure Logic Apps to navigate and interact with your 3270 applications.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To create mainframe metadata for 3270 stream-based artifacts to use in Azure Logic Apps, you can use the 3270 Design Tool. This tool is a desktop application that helps you define metadata used by the IBM 3270 connector in Azure Logic Apps to navigate and interact with your 3270 applications.
```

---
title: What is the 3270 Design Tool
description: Get started with the 3270 Design Tool for Azure Logic Apps. This development tool helps you create green-screen applications.

> author: haroldcampos

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> ms.author: "hcampos"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> ms.prod: "host-integration-server"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
ms.prod: host-integration-server
```

ms.topic: overview 

> ms.date: "10/17/2023"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
ms.date: 10/17/2023
```

> #CustomerIntent: As a programmer I need to use the 3270 design tool to create metadata for the Logic Apps connector for 3270

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#CustomerIntent: As a programmer, I need to create metadata for the 3270 connector in Azure Logic Apps using the 3270 Design Tool.
```

---

# What is the 3270 Design Tool? 

> Learn how to create Mainframe metadata 3270 stream based artifacts for Azure Logic Apps.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Learn how to create mainframe metadata for 3270 stream-based artifacts to use in Azure Logic Apps.
```

## What is the 3270 Design Tool

> The 3270 Design Tool is a desktop application used to define metadata used by the IBM 3270 Connector for Azure Logic Apps to navigate and interact with your 3270 applications.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The 3270 Design Tool is a desktop application that helps you define metadata used by the IBM 3270 connector in Azure Logic Apps to navigate and interact with your 3270 applications.
```

> :::image type="content" source="media/la-3dtdesigner-main-view1.png" alt-text="HIS Designer for Logic Apps":::

Reviewer: ```suggestion
:::image type="content" source="media/la-3dtdesigner-main-view1.png" alt-text="HIS Designer for Azure Logic Apps":::
```

> ## Why do we need a Tool for interacting with 3270 Applications?

Reviewer: Avoid ["we"](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/style-guide/a-z-word-list-term-collections/w/we):

```suggestion
## Why use this tool to interact with 3270 applications?
```

> In a 3270 screen-driven app, the screens and data fields are unique to your scenarios, so the 3270 connector needs this information about your app, which you can provide as metadata. This metadata describes information that helps your logic app identify and recognize screens, describes how to navigate between screens, where to input data, and where to expect results. To specify and generate this metadata, you use the 3270 Design Tool, which walks you through these specific modes, or stages, as described later in more details:.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In a 3270 screen-driven app, the screens and data fields are unique to your scenarios, so the 3270 connector needs this information about your app, which you can provide as metadata. This metadata describes information that helps your logic app identify and recognize screens, describes how to navigate between screens, where to input data, and where to expect results. To specify and generate this metadata, you use the 3270 Design Tool, which walks you through these specific modes, or stages, as described later in more details.
```

> In a 3270 screen-driven app, the screens and data fields are unique to your scenarios, so the 3270 connector needs this information about your app, which you can provide as metadata. This metadata describes information that helps your logic app identify and recognize screens, describes how to navigate between screens, where to input data, and where to expect results. To specify and generate this metadata, you use the 3270 Design Tool, which walks you through these specific modes, or stages, as described later in more details.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In a 3270 screen-driven app, the screens and data fields are unique to your scenarios, so the 3270 connector needs this information about your app, which you can provide as metadata. This metadata describes information that helps your logic app workflow identify and recognize screens, describes how to navigate between screens, where to input data, and where to expect results. To specify and generate this metadata, you use the 3270 Design Tool, which walks you through these specific modes, or stages, as described later in more details.
```

> ## How does it work?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## How does the 3270 Design Tool work?
```

your app, which you can provide as metadata. This metadata describes 
information that helps your logic app identify and recognize screens, 
describes how to navigate between screens, where to input data, 
and where to expect results. To specify and generate this metadata, 
you use the 3270 Design Tool, which walks you through these specific 
*modes*, or stages, as described later in more details:

* **Capture**: In this mode, you record the screens required for completing 
a specific task with your mainframe app, for example, getting a bank balance.

* **Navigation**: In this mode, you specify the plan or path for how 
to navigate through your mainframe app's screens for the specific task.

* **Methods**: In this mode, you define the method, for example, 
`GetBalance`, that describes the screen navigation path. You also 
select the fields on each screen that become the method's input 
and output parameters.

## Unsupported elements

The design tool doesn't support these elements:

* Partial IBM Basic Mapping Support (BMS) maps: If you import a BMS map, the design tool ignores partial screen definitions.

* Menu processing

## Downloading the 3270 Design tool

> The HIS Designer for Logic Apps can be downloaded from the Download Center.

Reviewer: Should be "3270 Design Tool", not "HIS Designer for Logic Apps"?

```suggestion
You can [download the 3270 Design Tool from the Download Center](https://www.microsoft.com/download/details.aspx?id=57962).
```

Author: This one is should be the 3270 Design Tool yes

## Next step

> [!div class="nextstepaction"]

> > [Designing Metadata Artifacts for 3270 Applications](application-integration-la3270apps.md)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> [Designing metadata artifacts for 3270 applications](application-integration-la3270apps.md)
```
